AFTER YOU ARE DONE IMPLEMENTING THE INSTRUCTIONS "NEW ORIGINALITY APP PART 1", YOU WILL TEST OUT EACH FUNCTION, FOR EACH LLM, FOR BOTH SINGLE 
AND DOUBLE DOCUMENT. AND YOU WILL USE THE FOLLOWING TESTS; YOU WILL NOT USE YOUR OWN TEST. 

FOR SINGLE DOCUMENT (THIS HOLDS FOR EACH OF THE FOUR FUNCTIONS: INTELLIGENCE/COGENCY/ETC.):
FIRST, YOU RUN THE DIFFERENT FUNCTIONS ON THE FOLLOWING TEXT: 

According to Locke, you are free to the extent that you can do what you want to do, and you’re unfree to the extent that you can’t. This is obviously a kind of freedom—a very important kind.
But it isn’t the only kind. And, contrary to what Locke says, there is a sense in which choices can be free or unfree. Harry Frankfurt made this clear.  A story will help us begin to understand Frankfurt’s insightful analysis of freedom.
Jones is a great writer who is addicted to heroin. Because his addiction is only moderate, he is able to function perfectly well even when he is heroin-deprived. (When heroin-deprived, he doesn’t feel good, but he is in no way incapacitated.) He knows that, if he were to shoot up right now, the subsequent lethargy would make it impossible for him to write a single word for the rest of the day. He also knows that, if he doesn’t write 10 pages today, he will lose his book contract. Jones does not want to lose the contract. Plus, he wants to grow as a writer, which he won’t do, at least not today, if he shoots up. He thus has a desire to not take the heroin—even though he simultaneously has a desire to take the heroin.
Jones’ desire to take heroin is a first-order desire. Jones’ desire not to act on this desire is a second-order desire. This is because Jones’ desire not to take heroin is a desire as to what to do with another desire; it is a desire not to cave in to a desire to take heroin.
Suppose that Jones caves in and he takes the heroin. In that case, Jones is a slave to his desires. His will has been compromised. He is not acting freely.
But now suppose that Jones does not cave in. He does the right thing: instead of taking the heroin, he endures the discomfort of a heroin-free day and manages to get his work done. In this context, Jones is not a slave to his desires. His will has not been bent. His conduct expresses a “free will.”
In light of considerations such as these, Frankfurt says that somebody has a free will to the extent that his conduct aligns with his second-order desires.
But here a question arises. Why are second-order desires so special? Why is it that freedom consists in doing the bidding of one’s second-order desires—as opposed to that of one’s third-order, or fourth-order, or first-order desires? What, in this context, is so special about the number two?
When the heroin-addicted writer decides not to take heroin, what is driving him is a rational appraisal of his situation. But when the heroin-addicted writer gives in to his addiction, it is not his rationality (or his morality) that is driving him.
Before we can close this argument, we must address Frankfurt’s discussion of the concept of a “person.” By a “person,” Frankfurt does not mean a member of the species homo sapiens. He means anything that has the same basic psychological architecture that we have. What is so special about that structure? First of all, we are self-conscious. Second, we are rational. Third, we are rational not only about how to attain our objectives, but also about what those objectives should be. What distinguishes persons from non-persons is that the former, but not the latter, subject their own desires (and, more generally, their own mental states) to critical scrutiny.
Non-persons are often very clever when it comes to figuring out how to attain their objectives; for example, beavers show a lot of intelligence when it comes to building dams. But they are not smart about whether they should be building dams in the first place. The question doesn’t arise. They have the desire, and they act on it (or they die trying). In general, persons do, whereas non-persons do not, subject their own desires to rational scrutiny. Non-persons do not ask themselves: “What would the consequences of acting on this desire be? And should I act on this desire?”
 
We persons, on the other hand, do subject our objectives to rational assessment. And this is obviously made possible by the fact that we are self-conscious. If I am overtaken by a desire to build a dam, I will ask myself: “how would my acting on this desire help my overall interests?” 
We can now close the argument. Whenever someone is driven by a rational assessment of their own desires, they are driven by a desire about a desire. Thus, one is rational only to the extent that it is one’s second-order desires that drive one’s conduct. There is a clear sense in which rational conduct is free and in which irrational conduct is not.
There’s more to being free than being able to do what you what. Your desires must reflect who you are. If they don’t, those desires belong to you but aren’t of you. And in that case, you are alienated from your own mental states, in much the way that a person with Parkinson’s is alienated from his body.
But, in a way, the alienation is even worse. Involuntary behavior is unintentional behavior. Intentional behavior is voluntary behavior. Voluntary behavior is desire-driven behavior. (If you don’t want to raise your arm, but it goes up anyway, you didn’t intend for it to happen.) Epileptic fits are not actions. Unintended behaviors are not action. Unlike actions, they’re undergone, not done. So estrangement from one’s own actions amounts to estrangement from all of one’s actions; and it’s hard to imagine a condition less free than that.
4.2.1 Frankfurt’s emendation of this analysis
Another story will help expose a problem with the analysis of freedom just described, and it will also clarify the raison d’être for Frankfurt’s soon to be discussed emendations of it.
Smith’s first-order desires are seriously out of alignment with his second. He values writing poetry; he’s good at it; and he enjoys it about as much as it’s humanly possibly to enjoy it. But he has a voracious craving for drugs. His craving for drugs, especially cocaine, is unusually strong; and his desire to write poetry, though intense, is not as intense as his desire to do cocaine.
Smith’s desire to do cocaine is out of alignment with many of his values (second-order desires). Were he to give into this desire, he couldn’t write poetry; nor could he maintain friendships or play sports or, with only a few exceptions, do any of the other things he values. For this reason, he doesn’t give in. But given how intense his craving is, every day is a struggle for Smith. If, as Frankfurt suggests, one is free to the extent that one acts on one’s second-order desires, Smith is as free as a person can be. But given how hard life is for Smith, it’s counterintuitive to suppose that he’s maximally free. To be sure he has a kind of freedom, and he has it in abundance. But there’s some other sort of freedom that he doesn’t have.
Frankfurt is aware of this problem, and he revises his view to deal with it. According to his revised view, if an act is to be free, it is necessary that it be driven by a second-order desire, but it isn’t sufficient. Another condition must be met: one’s first-order desires must be consistent with the second-order desires that are driving that act.
Here’s the idea. Person X has no self-control. He binges on drugs and food, and he hates himself for doing this; but he can’t stop—he’s too weak and his urges are too strong. His life has no meaning and he knows it; but he will not, or cannot, do anything about it. Unlike X, Person Y has a huge amount of self-control and never caves into temptation. But everything is a struggle, since he’s always fighting temptation, like a drowning man trying to stay afloat. (Y is like Smith.) Person Z cannot be categorized with X or with Y. Z always does what he values, which is composing music. And what he values is what he wants. He wants what he wants to want. Because he’s doing what he wants, he has the freedom that X has that Y lacks. Because he’s doing what he wants to want, he has the kind of freedom that Y has that X lacks. And since, of the three, he’s the only one who has both kinds of freedom, he’s obviously the most free of them all.
Thus, one is free insofar as two conditions are met: (i) one acts on one’s second-order desires, as opposed to one’s first-order desires; and (ii) one’s second-order desires are in alignment with one’s first-order desires.
To see the merits, and also the shortcomings, of Frankfurt’s brilliant (and, I think, largely correct) analysis, we must take a moment to say how that analysis relates to compatibilism.
 
4.2.2 “x is free”= “x does what x wants to provided that what she wants to do is adequately rooted in her personality structure”
We’ve considered two analyses of freedom: (i) “x performed act A freely” = “it is because x chose to A that he did it,” and (ii) “performed A freely’’ = “A reflects who x really is.” These two views can be combined into the view that (iii) “x performed act A freely” = “it is because x chose to A that he did it, provided that this choice of x’s reflects who x really is.”
This analysis, which is basically Frankfurt’s, embodies a profound insight into the nature of human freedom. But, despite everything said thus far, a case can be made that at the end of the day all freedom is freedom to do what one wants. For reasons that we’ll soon discuss, I myself don’t accept this idea. But it isn’t by any means absurd. Here’s why:

(FD ) Smith has given himself over to drug addiction. He spends days doing drugs. (He has unlimited supplies of money and never has trouble getting them.) Smith has many talents—he’s a great water-skier, a great short-story writer, etc., but, because of his addition, these gifts of his lie fallow.
Green, on the other hand, hasn’t given himself over to addiction. He spends his days doing things that augment who he is. Green can’t indulge every craving that he has. Unlike Smith, he doesn’t have the money to do so.
You (JMK/Frankfort) would say that Green is freer than Smith, and your reason would be that, even though he can’t gratify as many desires as Smith can, the desires that Green does gratify have the right roots, whereas those that Smith gratifies do not.
I grant that Smith’s condition is worse than Green’s, and also that Smith is less free than Green. But, contrary to what you say, that is because, when it comes to desire gratification, Green’s batting average is better than Smith’s. There are a lot of aspirations that Smith has that will be thwarted as long as he’s imprisoned by addiction. Smith wants to do cocaine more than he wants to be a writer, but it doesn’t follow that he no longer wants to be a writer. He could very well want both.  Let’s suppose he does. In that case, a very strong desire of his is being frustrated. It’s true that he’s the one who’s frustrating it, but that doesn’t mean it isn’t frustrated.
Smith will inevitably have many other desires that his cocaine addiction dooms to frustration. In his pre-addiction days, we may suppose, Smith enjoyed many things that he no longer enjoys. We can assume that he desired to do each of these things, and we can also assume that he still desires them, even though he obviously doesn’t desire them as strongly as he desires cocaine. Many desires are rooted in personality structures. A desire to play the piano or read Nietzsche doesn’t just overtake one; it’s rooted in enduring structural facts about one’s personality. And as long as the personality structure is there, one’s ability to express it in the form of action is, practically by definition, a form of frustration. Smith’s personality structure may still support those desires. (And almost certainly will. Addiction doesn’t turn people into complete vegetables, at least not right away, and usually not ever.) It could be that Smith thinks it would be greater. But it’s not so clear that it would in fact be greater. The phenomenological expression of that frustration would be more intense. that doesn’t necessarily mean that the desire in question is itself more intense. But that doesn’t necessarily mean that the desire in question is itself more intense. Desires, even short-lived ones, are structures; they aren’t feelings. And the feelings to which a desire gives rise don’t necessarily make it clear how intense that desire really is.

FD is close to the truth, but it falls just short. Another story shows why. Aaronson is a coward who has no self-confidence. So even though he wants to write novels and is extremely talented at it, he doesn’t do so. It isn’t safe enough. It’s too bohemian for his stodgy, blinkered parents and for his equally stodgy friends (who he doesn’t even like—he just pretends to like them, since he’s supposed to). To make a living, Aaronson sells insurance, which he hates. His life is a waking death.
In living as others want him to, Smith is surrendering his freedom, and he is also dooming many desires of his to frustration. But the two, though related, aren’t identical. Aaronson is suppressing an important side 
 
of himself. The personality structures that he is suppressing give rise to many ardent desires, but they aren’t identical with such desires. His losing his freedom consists in his suppressing these structures. The desire frustration that follows is an effect of this loss of freedom and isn’t identical with it.
So Aaronson’s loss of freedom isn’t identical with his being unable to do what he wants; his being unable to do what he wants is a by-product of his loss of freedom. To be sure, his inability to do what he wants is itself a loss of freedom. But, important though this second kind of freedom is, it’s distinct from the first kind and a derivative of it. So being free consists primarily in being oneself, and secondarily in being able to do what one wants. And this is obviously close to what Frankfurt is saying, if it doesn’t coincide with it.
4.3 Sartre and Merleau-Ponty on freedom
Jean-Paul Sartre (1905–1980) and Maurice Merleau-Ponty (1908–1961) both give what appears to be the same argument, to wit:

(SMP1 ) Smith is in a locked room, and Jones is in an unlocked room. It is only to the extent that Smith wants to leave the room that his being unable to do so is an abridgment on his freedom. So, to the extent that Smith’s being locked inside the room limits his freedom, it’s because, to that extent, the world isn’t complying with his will.
The same points mutatis mutandis hold of Jones. It’s only to the extent that Jones does want to leave the room he’s in that his being able to do so constitutes a freedom. If he doesn’t want to leave, his being able to do so isn’t a freedom, or is only a hollow one. To the extent Jones does want to leave the room, his being able to do so does entail that he’s free (in that respect). But it isn’t because his will is free that Jones is (in this respect) free. It’s because the world meets his will halfway.
The difference between Jones and Smith isn’t that the one has a freer will than the other. It’s that the world meets the one person’s will halfway but concedes nothing to the other person’s will. They both have free wills. To have a free will is to be free to decide what you want. It is not to be free to have what you want. 

Supposing for argument’s sake that SMP1 is correct, what follows isn’t that Smith’s will is free, but only that his will is not made unfree by the fact that he cannot leave the room. Locke would say that neither Smith nor Jones has a will that is at all free, the reason being, Locke would say that freedom is a property, not of the will per se, but of the relationship between will and act.
But even if, contrary to what Locke says, freedom is a property of the will, there is another reason to reject SMP1. An extension of the story just told will help us identify this reason. Brown (some third person) has surgically implanted a microchip in Smith’s brain. Brown controls Smith’s desires and subsequent decisions by means of that microchip. So if Brown wants Smith to want to play tennis, then Brown can make Smith have that desire by means of the microchip. The locked room that Smith is now occupying is packed with beautiful artwork. Because he is an artist, Smith would ordinarily want to spend hours studying these masterpieces, and he thus wouldn’t want to leave the room any time soon. But, using the microchip, Brown makes Smith desire to leave the room immediately—that is, Brown makes Smith’s will be to leave the room immediately. But, at this instant, Brown unlocks the room, giving Smith the ability to leave.
Here we surely have a case of an unfree will if ever there was one. So while it is true that, when he didn’t want to leave the room, Smith’s will was not made unfree by the fact that the door is locked, it doesn’t follow that Smith’s will was free.
Although neither Sartre nor Merleau-Ponty consider this exact point, they both put forth an argument that constitutes a kind of response to this, viz.:

(SMP2) Once again, suppose that Smith is in a locked room and wants leave it. There is obviously a sense in which Smith is unfree. If Smith had no desire to leave the room, he would not be unfree (in this particular respect).
 
You are not able to turn into a tadpole. But this doesn’t constitute an encroachment on your freedom, since you have no desire to be a tadpole. (If you did, it would.) The same is true of Smith. It is only relative to certain choices that he has made that Smith’s freedom is limited. If he had no desire to leave the room, then his freedom would not be limited by his inability to leave the room.
In general, it is only relative to the choices that we make that our freedom is limited. So there can be a lack of freedom only where choices have already been made. Since, consequently, the making of choices must occur before there can be any lack of freedom, it follows that our choices themselves are made freely. (Cf. Merleau-Ponty, p. 469: “[W]hat are called obstacles to freedom are in reality deployed by it. An unclimbable rock face, a large or small slanting rock, are things which have no meaning for anyone who is not intending to surmount them...” See also Sartre, p. 463.)

Given a Lockean conception of freedom (“to be free is to be able to do what you want to do—nothing more”) SMP2 goes through. So SMPT is conditionally correct. But on the basis of it, Sartre and Merleau-Ponty hold a view that is unconditionally incorrect. They hold that, given the truth of (SMP2), it follows that choices are entirely uncaused.  
This is a major non-sequitur. It may be true that one cannot meaningfully speak of an absence of freedom except where choices have already been made. But it doesn’t follow that those choices were uncaused or, consequently, that those choices were not predetermined. We’ve already seen why.
4.4 Ego-dystonic vs. ego-syntonic causes
To be free, we have argued, one must identify with one’s desires—gratifying them isn’t enough. Psychologists refer to mental contents that one identifies with as ego-syntonic and to those that one doesn’t identify with as ego-dystonic. An understanding of this distinction may clarify why determinism is necessary for freedom and why indeterminism threatens it.
Some people who suffer from psychological disturbances identify with their symptoms. They don’t see their symptoms as symptoms. For example, the acute schizophrenic who sees goblins dancing on his bed thinks that he’s seeing things as they are. To his mind, it’s other people who are wrong: they can’t see what’s there; he can. The same holds of the paranoiac who thinks her phone conversations are being monitored by the President.
These are ego-syntonic disorders. The viewpoint embodied in the patient’s symptoms coincides with the viewpoint of the patient himself. The latter doesn’t regard the former as an “alien intruder.”
But not all psychological disturbances are like this. The classic example is obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).  Those afflicted with this disorder obsess over matters hardly worthy of their attention; they’re compelled to perform absurd acts (e.g., they’re compelled to snap their fingers if they have a thought about the number seven); they’re also compelled to perform normal acts an abnormal number of times or for an abnormally long period (e.g., they’re compelled to brush their teeth 20 times a day or to shower for hours on end). But sufferers of OCD know that their obsessions and compulsions are irrational. They succumb to the compulsions not because they actually believe they believe there to be any objective reason to do so, but because, for reasons unknown to them, they suffer intolerable anxiety if they don’t. And they know that their obsessions are not legitimate; they know that those obsessions aren’t comparable to Einstein’s obsession with identifying framework-invariant physical laws or Beethoven’s obsessive dedication to perfecting the Hammerklavier Sonata. They obsess despite themselves. They don’t think their obsessions have any legitimate basis. They just can’t stop them.
Thus, those afflicted with OCD don’t identify with their symptoms. Unlike schizophrenics, they see their symptoms as symptoms. Their symptoms belong to their minds but not to them; they are like alien-invaders that have taken root in their psyches.
Bearing these points in mind, consider the following scenario. You hate numbers. You are not detail-oriented. You want to spend all day writing novels. (You’re a very talented novelist.) You know all of this. But one day you are overcome with an intense desire to become an accountant. This desire came out of nowhere. It has no roots in your personality.
 
You obviously don’t identify with this desire. This is because it has no roots in who you are. And the reason it has no such roots is that your existing values, desires, aspirations, and so on, had no hand in giving rise to it.
Were you to act on this desire, there is a sense in which you’d be acting freely, but there’s a deeper sense in which you’d be acting unfreely. You’d be acting (un)freely in a sense similar to (though not quite coincident with, as we’ll see) the sense in which somebody who hands his money over to a gunman is acting (un)freely.
Suppose that, while pointing a gun at Smith, Green says “your money or your life.” In handing over his money, Smith is acting freely in the sense that he’s doing what it is that, the circumstances being what they are, he wants to do; and he’s acting unfreely in the sense that, the circumstances being what they are, what he wants to do is not what he wants to want to do.
Much like Smith, you’re damned if you do and damned if you don’t. Supposing that you knuckle under to your ego-dystonic desire to become an accountant, you are acting freely in the sense that you are doing what you want to do, and you are acting unfreely in the sense that you are not doing what you want to want to do.
That said, there is a sense in which you are less free than Smith. The circumstances being what they are, Smith must exercise his agency in ways that he’d rather not to have to exercise it. But this agency is quite intact.
But your agency is not intact. Your ego-dystonic desire to become an accountant is competing for control over the very mechanisms that convert ego-syntonic intentions of yours into action; and were you to give into this desire, you would to that extent be forfeiting control over those mechanisms. By virtue of having that desire, you’re in a position similar to that of the President of a country much of whose is controlled by war-lords who don’t recognize his authority—warlords who, though they operate in his country, are not of it, and whose sphere of authority is only as big as the President’s sphere of influence is small.
Smith’s situation is like that of a President whose country is being attacked by a foreign nation but who has complete control over his own country. Even though Smith is in a situation in which he is forced to act in ways in which he wouldn’t otherwise act, his autonomy is not on that account compromised; and there is thus an important sense in which Smith is freer than you are.

IF THE SCORES EVER AVERAGE BELOW A 90, THEN EITHER YOU ARE FILTERING LLM RESULTS OR THE LLM IS IGNORING YOUR INSTRUCTIONS AND DEFAULTING TO "SCHOOL MARM" (CONVENTIONAL, NON-THREATNING, NON-EXTREME, INACURATE) EVALUATION PROTOCOLS.
ONCE YOU HAVE SATISFACTORY RESULTS FOR THAT TEST, YOU RUN THE TESTS ON THE FOLLOWING TEXT: 

In this dissertation, I critically examine the philosophy of transcendental empiricism. 
Transcendental empiricism is, among other things, a philosophy of mental content. 
It attempts to dissolve an epistemological dilemma of mental content by splitting the
 difference between two diametrically opposed accounts of content. John McDowell's minimal 
empiricism and Richard Gaskin's minimalist empiricism are two versions of transcendental empiricism. 
Transcendental empiricism itself originates with McDowell's work. This dissertation is divided into five parts. 
First, in the Introduction, I state the Wittgensteinian metaphilosophical orientation of transcendental empiricism. 
This metaphilosophical approach provides a plateau upon which much of the rest of this work may be examined. 
Second, I offer a detailed description of McDowell’s minimal empiricism. Third, I critique Gaskin's critique and modification of McDowell's minimal empiricism. I argue that (1) Gaskin's critiques are faulty and that (2) Gaskin's minimalist empiricism is very dubious. Fourth, I scrutinize the alleged credentials of McDowell's minimal empiricism. I argue that McDowell's version of linguistic idealism is problematic. I then comment on a recent dialogue between transcendental empiricism and Hubert Dreyfus's phenomenology. The dialogue culminates with Dreyfus's accusation of the “Myth of the Mental.” I argue that this accusation is correct in which case McDowell's direct realism is problematic. I conclude that minimal empiricism does not dissolve the dilemma of mental content. 
Finally, I argue that Tyler Burge successfully undermines the doctrine of disjunctivism, 
but disjunctivism is crucial for transcendental empiricism. Ultimately, however, I aim to show that transcendental empiricism is an 
attractive alternative to philosophies of mental content.

IF THE SCORES EVER AVERAGE ABOVE A 70/100, THEN THE APP IS TOTALLY FAILING, EITHER BECAUSE IT IS FILTERING THE RESULTS OR THE LLMS
ARE COVERTLY USING EVALUATION LOGIC THAT IS FOREIGN TO THE QUESTIONS. 

AFTER YOU GET A SATISFACTORY RESULT FOR EACH OF THE ABOVE TEXTS, YOU TEST THE TWO-TEXT (TEXT-COMPARISON) FUNCTION. 
YOU DO NOT ADMINSITER YOUR OWN TEST; RATHER YOU ADMINISTER THE FOLLOWING TEST. 
YOU GET EACH OF THE LLMS TO COMPARE THE ABOVE TWO PASSAGES (THE ONE ABOUT FREE WILL AND THE THING ABOUT GASKINS). YOU VERIFY THAT THE SCORES
GIVEN IN THE TWO-DOCUMENT MODE ARE COMPARABLE (MORE OR LESS THE SAME) AS THOSE GIVEN IN SINGLE DOCUMENT MODE. IF THEY ARE NOT, THEN THE TWO DOCUMENT MODE 
HAS FAILED. AND IF THE THING ABOUT GASKINS/TRANSCENDENTAL EMPRIICSM SOCRES HIGHER/THE SAME AS THE OTHER THEN, THEN THE TWO DOCUMENT MODE IS NOT 
WORKING. 



