AND THE COLack of Coordination as an Expression of Internal Conflict
 J.-M. Kuczynski

I have always been very coordinated. And I am still coordinated. But there has been a change. In the last few years, I have been at a cross-roads, or rather at a series of cross-roads. I have had to choose between different jobs, different professions, different careers, and different identities. And there have been a number of reversals, a number of zig-zags—choices were made, then unmade, then made again, and so on. 
And this vacillation has percolated down to the micro-level of my existence. I have to choose between this kind of candy bar and that kind of candy bar, and the same doing and undoing that has marked some of my macro-level behavior is reflected in my vacillating between this and that kind of candy bar, between this and that pair of shoes. 
And when I thus vacillated, my behavior was, quite literally, uncoordinated. I would reach for the Kit Kat bar, then re-think my choice, and then reach for the Mar’s bar, then re-re-think my choice and, once again, reach for the Kit Kat bar. My behavior resembled that of an uncoordinated person; and, indeed, that is what it was. 
I did largely resolve the previously mentioned macro-level uncertainties in my life, and, to the extent that I did so, the just-mentioned uncoordinateness vanished. 
But had this indecisiveness becoming systemic—had it become a characteristic of my personality, rather than of my behavior in a few isolated cases—then I would, so I believe, become an uncoordinated person, rather than one who was just uncoordinated in certain specific contexts. 
All of which leads to me conjecture that lack of coordination has to do with conflicting intentions. And when uncoordinateness is permanent, it is because the indecisiveness that characterizes a person in certain specific contexts then becomes built into his character. All of which may be summed up thus: lack of coordination is an expression of internal conflict. 
