What is a religion? A sanitized, rationalized cult; a cult that has become respectable; that has been absorbed into society; that has become part of the economy; that has the same financial and legal commitments as any other institution; that has been institutionalized and bureaucratized into near-lifelessness: in a word, a near dead cult. So it isn’t cults that are degenerate religions; it is religions that are degenerate cults: degenerate precisely because they are so non-degenerate relative to all the usual rationality-based benchmarks and because, therefore, they are so lacking in the one thing—call it “spiritual vitality”, for lack of a less definite term—that sets religions apart from garden-variety institutions, such as the Department of Motor Vehicles.  

What is a cult? 

So the real question is: What is a cult? The obvious answer is: A cult is a case of collective person-worship. The “collective” qualification is crucial. If Sally worships Charles Manson and nobody else does, that is not a cult. And if 100 different individuals worship Charles Manson, and they all do so independently of each other, that too is not a cult: that is essentially 100 different love-affairs; it is not a single institution and is therefore not a cult.  But there does exist a cult if 100 individuals worship Charles Manson and they police each other to perpetuate the cycle of Manson-worship. 
And this answer (“a cult is a case of collective person-worship”) is extensionally correct (or at least approximately so: see below), meaning that x is a cult if, and only if, x is a case of collective person-worship. But now we need answers to questions about this answer, and the first such question is: What is it to worship something? 

Worshipping x ≠ Holding x in high regard 

To worship something is not merely to acknowledge that it has great power. A hypothetical: I believe that Charles Manson is extremely intelligent, extremely capable, etc. This does not believe that I worship him; it doesn’t even mean that I idolize him. Of course, if I know that he is so formidable, I will conduct myself accordingly; but being worshipful of a given thing is not the same thing as making due allowances for its strengths. To be sure, my being worshipful of Charles Manson would seem to entail my believing him to have some virtue or other (e.g. intelligence) to an extreme degree; but the entailment does not go in the opposite direction. 
The situation doesn’t change if I believe that Charles Manson is superhumanly intelligent, capable, etc. A hypothetical: I believe that Charles Manson is not just extremely intelligent but several orders of magnitude more intelligent than any other person. (“Intelligent” can serve as a stand-in for any other virtue we might wish to impute to him.) I still don’t necessarily worship him. Another hypothetical: It turns out that Superman (or someone with his abilities) exists—that there exists someone who can fly, has x-ray vision, etc.  I find out about this: and I do so through the normal methods; I see this Super-person in action, or I learn about his super deeds through reliable channels. Do I worship this entity? Not necessarily. If I am a normal human being, I am probably envious; if I am a rational human being, I am probably fearful, at least depending on what else I know about him. 

To worship x = To regard x as supernatural 

Importantly, “superhuman” is not the same as “supernatural.” My believing that Charles Manson is supernaturally intelligent (or strong or what not) would seem to entail my being worshipful of him—as opposed to merely duly cognizant of his strengths. 
But there are a few points to make in response to this. First, “supernatural” is not the same as “extreme” or even “extremely extreme.” Somebody who can run 30 mph is extremely fast. Somebody who can run 50 mph is superhumanly fast—but not supernaturally so. It doesn’t make a difference how fast he can run: if he can run 500 mph, he is superhumanly fast, but not supernaturally so. But what if he can exceed the speed of light? If I knew that someone could exceed the speed of light, I wouldn’t conclude that was supernaturally fast; I would conclude that, contrary to what I thought, the laws of nature don’t prohibit things from exceeding the speed of light. 
To be clear: If the data warrants my believing that some person (let’s call him “Max”) can exceed the speed of light, and for that reason and that reason alone I believe Max to be able to exceed the speed of light, then I don’t believe that Max is supernaturally fast. “But suppose you hold your beliefs about the laws of nature fixed”, it might be objected, “and you believe that Max can exceed the speed of light: in that case, surely, you do believe that Max is supernaturally fast.” But that supposition is incoherent; for if I believe the data to warrant such a position, then I ipso facto believe it to warrant rejection of the position that nothing can exceed the speed of light. 
