Chapter 27
The Ethical Basis of Law
It’s widely held that laws are nothing other than mechanisms of coercion and, therefore, that law is primarily about power, and only secondarily, if at all, about morality. Nobody denies that laws and legal systems may happen to be good. But those who grant this often hold that it isn’t inherent in the nature of law that legal systems must be good, their position being that any overlap between law and morality is incidental to what law is.
Is this right? Are legal systems primarily instruments of coercion, and only secondarily, if at all, ways of promoting the ends of morality? Or is it inherent in the nature of law that legal systems must embody a certain morality? The facts seem to demand that the first question be answered with a “yes” and the second with a “no.” Fact: there are evil laws. Fact: laws are used to force people to do things they don’t want to do and aren’t ethically required to do. Fact: there are supremely immoral legal systems.
An analysis of law mustn’t deny any of these obvious facts. Nonetheless, the concept of law is to be understood in terms of morality, and anything that fails to meet certain, non-trivial moral requirements ipso facto isn’t a legal system.
If Smith and I were stranded on a desert island, and we thus both fell outside the scope of any legal system, I would have a moral, but not a legal, obligation to refrain from punching him. My legal obligation not to punch Smith is therefore distinct from my moral obligation not to do so. But my legal obligation not to punch Smith is a moral obligation: it is a moral obligation to comply with a system of rules on which people depend for protections of their most basic rights—a system which builds highways and hospitals, prevents people from killing and stealing from one another, and holds physicians and other professionals accountable to certain ethical standards.
One may have a legal obligation to commit an immoral act. But, in such a case, one’s legal obligation is not morally hollow. One’s legal obligation to commit an immoral act is identical with one’s moral obligation to comply with a system of the kind just described. Discharging that obligation involves committing an immoral act, but that obligation is not itself morally negative or morally hollow.
This last point demands elucidation. It is one thing to have an obligation to do X, and it is quite another to have an obligation the fulfillment of which involves doing X. A surgeon has an obligation to heal his patient. Fulfilling that obligation involves causing his patient to suffer. But a surgeon doesn’t have an obligation to cause his patient to suffer. (In fact, he has an obligation to minimize his patient’s suffering. A surgeon would be violating his professional obligations if he chose not to use anesthetic when there was no medical reason not to do so.) Similarly, fulfilling one’s legal obligations may involve committing an immoral or morally neutral act. But it doesn’t follow that legal obligations are ever immoral or amoral. If I have a legal obligation to do X, that means that I have a moral obligation the fulfillment of which involves my doing X. It does not mean that I have a moral obligation to do X. That is why a legal obligation to commit an immoral act may be morally wholesome. Hence the following argument is invalid—“given that one has legal obligations to commit immoral acts, it follows that legal obligations are not moral obligations”—and once this is seen, one of the more obvious obstacles to accepting a moralistic analysis of law has been removed.
Let us discuss a positive reason to accept such an analysis. A government is a success precisely to the extent that it serves the interests of those whom it governs. The same is therefore true of laws, given that laws are among the instruments of government. It follows that the concept of law is to be understood in moral terms, even though there are immoral laws.
 
Governments often behave in an unspeakably evil manner towards their own constituents; and often-times this misconduct involves, or even coincides with, the issuing of laws. On this basis, many have concluded that the concept of law is not to be understood in moral terms. But this line of thought involves a failure to make three important distinctions:
(i) The distinction between individual and institutional frames of evaluation;
(ii) The distinction between functional and purely factual frames of evaluation; and
(iii) The distinction between suspensions of protections of rights, on the one hand, and positive violations of rights, on the other.
The personal success of a head of government may not involve his serving the interests of his constituents, and it may even involve his thwarting those interests. But a head of government is a success as a head of state precisely to the extent that he serves the interests of his constituents. Given this, it follows that the objective of government—of any government—is to protect the interests of the governed. Stalin failed as a head of government precisely because he did not serve the interests of his constituents. It follows that the objective of the Soviet government was to serve the interests of its constituents—even though that may not have been the objective of Stalin or of any of the other senior officials composing that government. If a dictator issues a law that harms his constituents, he fails as a law-maker, even though issuing that law may help him achieve personal success of some kind—even though, for example, it may help him hold onto power. In general, one fails as law-maker if one issues a law that hurts those who are subject to it. This shows that the purpose of a legal system per se is to serve the interests of those who are subject to it—even though that may not be the objective of all, or even any, of the individuals who created that legal system. Distinction (i) thus removes one of the major reasons to reject a moralistic analysis of law.
Now let us discuss (ii). Even if everyone alive suddenly succumbed to liver disease, and each person’s liver stopped removing toxins from his bloodstream, there would still be a significant sense in which livers were to be understood as removers of toxins. If one accepts a strictly fact-based frame of evaluation, one is blind to this obvious fact; and one is not blind to it if one accepts a frame of evaluation that allows for functional categories. An analogue of this line of thought holds of law and government. Even if every government were thoroughly corrupt and exploitative, there would still be a significant sense in which governments were to be understood as protectors of rights, and in which the laws issued by governments were to be understood as attempts to provide protections of rights. Like hearts and livers, governments and the laws they issue are to be understood in functional, and not strictly statistical-empirical, terms.
The significance of distinction (iii) is to be understood in terms of the following argument. If a certain legal system doesn’t prohibit anyone from violating Smith’s rights, then Smith falls outside the jurisdiction of that system. There is legal obligation only where there is moral protection, and the moral core of one’s legal obligations lies in this fact.
But there is an obvious objection to this argument. People have legal obligations under governments that harm them. Given this, it seems straightforwardly false to say that legal obligations under a government categorically presuppose receipt of moral protections from that same government. Here is where distinction (iii) becomes relevant. Suppose that Officer Smith beats me without cause. Even while I am being beaten, the government continues to protect my rights: anyone caught attempting to burgle my house or kidnap my children will be arrested; and it may even be other police officers who, acting in the name of duty, stop Smith from further beating me. Thus, Smith’s misconduct is a case where a positive violation of my rights is superimposed on the continued existence of governmental protections of those same rights. The same thing is true of any case where one has legal obligations under a government that harms one. Thus, even though one may have legal obligations towards a government that harms one, it doesn’t follow that legal obligation doesn’t presuppose moral protection. So far as one thinks otherwise, one is failing to make distinction (iii).
Like the present author, Ronald Dworkin  argues that the concept of law is to be understood in moral terms. His argument is that judicial decisions are often made on moral, as opposed to narrowly statutory, grounds. This argument is less than probative. If the judge rules that the money is Smith’s, then 
 
the bank manager is acting illegally if he refuses to give Smith the key to the safety-deposit box. If the judge rules that the money is not Smith’s, then the bank manager is acting illegally if he does give Smith the key. The judge may or may not make his decision on the basis of a moral principle. In either case, the law is what the judge says it is. This is the antithesis of the idea that there is any necessary relationship between law and morality, even though it is obviously compatible with the idea that the two may sometimes overlap.
We’ve already seen why law is to be understood in terms of morality, notwithstanding that Dworkin’s argument for this conclusion is less than cogent. But if our criticism of Dworkin is correct, it seems to follow the legal interpretation (so-called) is mere legislation, and thus isn’t interpretation at all. But legal interpretation is not mere legislation, and this is perfectly compatible with the fact that the law is what the judge says it is.
A brief detour through the history of science may help to indicate the broader outlines of my argument for this. The layperson’s concept of temperature has no application outside of what are, from a physicist’s viewpoint, extremely narrow horizons. When physicists identified heat with molecular motion, they were not identifying the content of the layperson’s concept of temperature. Rather, they were replacing the lay-person’s concept with one that is consistent with it, within its narrow sphere of applicability, but is more precisely defined and also has a much wider sphere of application. Such principled extensions of existing concepts are referred to as “delineations” or “precisifications.” Any judicial ruling is ipso facto an extension, not an identification, of existing law. But judicial rulings are principled extensions of the law—that is, they are delineations of it, and are not cases of law being created out of whole cloth. Just as some delineations of the concept of temperature (“a body’s temperature is the sum of the velocities of its constituent molecules divided by the number of those particles”) are truer to pre-theoretic data than others (“heat is dephlogistinated matter”), so some interpretations of law are truer to existing law than others.
Blackstone said that judges identify, and do not create, law. John Austin described Blackstone’s position as a “childish fiction.” Given the argument just outlined—and, in fact, independently of that argument—we must agree with Austin. But given that same argument, we must disagree with the nihilistic view, held by the so-called “legal realists,” that judicial interpretation is mere legislation, and isn’t answerable to objective standards.
